(tone booms)
All right now, we're gonna be working
on the search component that goes up here.
And it's sort of a mix between search, lazy searching
and like a dropdown autocomplete.
We're also gonna be using this library called downshift-js
for this, which makes doing these dropdown types
super easy and accessible.
So let's go in, make a brand new component.
Let's call that Search.js.
And then inside of here,
we will export default function Search.
And then from that, we're going to return
SearchStyles.
And we'll try to import that one.
Let's see what we can do here.
No, we're gonna import the SearchStyles directly,
SearchStyles from,
and it's in the styles directory, forward slash, DropDown
is where those styles are gonna live.
It looks like this accidentally auto closed.
There we go.
And inside of there, just putting a paragraph that says hey.
And we'll go into our header.js
and we'll find where we have that div
with a class of sub-bar.
We have our Search.
We can replace it with an actual Search component
and then go ahead and import that
from the file that we have, okay cool.
Next we need a little bit more markup here.
So we'll have a div here.
And then inside of that, we want an input with the...
Actually we're not gonna put any,
we'll put type of search on it,
but we're going to come back in just a second
and switch how these are passed to it.
And then below that,
we're going to have a DropDown component.
And that can be imported from component styles/dropdown.
You see that automatically got imported there.
That one worked just fine.
Inside of the DropDown, we're gonna have DropDownItem.
And that was gonna be each search result that comes back.
And you can import that one
from your styles directory as well.
And then inside of there just say, Hey.
Give yourself a couple of them
just so we can see what we're working with, okay cool.
So look, this is the base render
of all the the divs and everything that we want.
And now when we wanna add in the functionality,
we're going to be reaching for a library called Downshift
which makes doing this sort of dropdown,
auto-complete stuff really easily,
but most important, really accessible.
'Cause you might think like,
oh, it's not that big of a deal.
Just listen for the down and up arrows
and a click and you're done,
but making these sort of dropdowns accessible for keyboards
is really difficult.
So that's why we use a third-party package for it.
So we'll go right above this return here.
And this is going to be a little bit big
but we're gonna add the pieces
as we need them from downshift.
So let's say const,
curly brackets, getMenuProps,
getInputProps, and getCombobox
oh, lowercase box, Props.
And that is going to be useCombobox.
And that is a method that lives in downshift.
We'll have to import useCombobox from downshift.
Boom, there we go.
And then a bunch of arguments
that get passed to useCombobox is one object.
And inside of that, it takes a number of different options.
First, is the items which,
it will be an empty array right now.
Second one is going to be onInputValueChange.
And that will just be console.log Input changed.
Next one will be onSelectedItemChange.
And we'll just console.log Selected Item changed.
So this is gonna fire when somebody types into the box,
this is gonna fire
when somebody selects an item from the dropdown,
meaning they wish to go to that page for that specific item.
So I think that's the very basics
that we can get this up and running.
Then what we'll do
is we'll take these methods that we just created here
and we have to spread them
into the different elements on there.
And these are what make all of this stuff
keyboard-accessible without us having to worry
about listening for keyup and keydown
and ARIA attributes and all that.
So this right here is going to be curly brackets,
...getComboboxProps,
and it's gonna add a bunch of stuff to that.
The input in here, we can take this type of search out,
is going to be ...getInputProps
and then any additional options
which you wish to pass to your input can go in here.
So type search, that's gonna be the type.
placeholder is going to be Search for an Item.
The id is search.
And className is going to be loading.
And we will have to programmatically turn that on and off
once we actually have our query.
But that should be enough for now.
If I give this a refresh,
let's double check if there's any errors.
Yeah this is one error we get,
aria-controls did not match.
Server gave us downshift-3, Client gave us downshift-0.
So what's wrong in that case?
So what happens is that Downshift accounts
for having multiples on the page
and it will try to assign unique identifiers to each one.
And sometimes what the server renders
and what the client renders is off.
So there's a very simple fix for that
is we'll just go to the very top of this
and just say resetIdCounter.
And that is a method that is imported from downshift.
And then that takes care of any server side rendering issues
that you might have.
I'll give that a refresh.
There we go.
Now we get one more thing.
You forgot to call getMenuProps.
This is why I really like this library.
'Cause like when it gives you errors that like,
oh you forgot to do this, you silly goose.
Then you're like, oh, I did forget to do that.
And that will go on the DropDown here.
So your curly brackets, ...getMenuProps.
And give it a refresh.
Make sure there's no other errors that are happening.
Okay, cool.
Next thing we need to do is actually write a query
that will find the items from our GraphQL API
as the user searches for them.
So you guessed it, we're gonna write a query
for all the items that we want.
So const SEARCH_PRODUCTS_QUERY = gql.
We'll import gql from graphql-tag.
And the query will be called
SEARCH_PRODUCTS_QUERY, takes in a variable.
We'll call that searchTerm.
And that will be a String.
And you have to pass it a String
if you wanna be able to use that.
All right, and the query
that we call against our Keystone GraphQL API
is called allProducts.
And if you ever wanna rename,
you know, like when you get the data back,
it's like data.allProducts.
If you ever wanna rename that,
you could do something like this, searchTerms,
and it will search for all products
but it will put the data in a property called searchTerms.
So I'm gonna put that on there
just to show you how you can rename it.
That's especially helpful
is if you were doing multiple searches,
like I wanna search for all products
that have a title of yeti.
But then I also want to search for all products
that have a title of shoes, right?
And in that case, you'd be overlapping all products.
So we could rename one to shoes and one to yeti
and that way it would work, no problem.
But in our case, we just need that one.
So we have allProducts.
And then from that,
we want to return the id of the product that comes back,
the name of the product that comes back,
the photo with an image with the publicUrlTransformed.
Now the important part
is what we pass to all products right here, right?
We wanna be able to query items based on the search term.
So what we can do is inside of here, we'll say where.
And we wanna check if the name or the description
matches our actual items.
And if we go to our GraphQL API right here,
let me just show you a quick example.
We could for sure, just query allProducts
and we want the id and the name.
Let's just show you that.
Boom, that gives you all the products, right?
And then, or you could go inside of here.
You could say where,
the name.
And look at this, name_not_in, not in i, name_contains,
name_ends_with, names_starts_with.
They have all these different options that we have in here
which is really cool.
In our case we will do name_contains.
And then _i means insensitive.
So if someone searches for uppercase Yeti,
and we're a lowercase yeti, it will still return it.
So we could do something like this.
Oh, you got to use double quotes.
Okay so there we go.
That gives us a subset of it.
But what if we wanna search
for the name and the description?
Well, in that case, we give ourselves an OR.
And you can give it an array of multiples of those.
So OR, name.
What was it?
Oh, each one is an object.
OR name_contains_i
yeti.
Or another one is going to be a different field, right?
description_contains_i yeti.
And I don't think that will change anything
but you could run that.
But you could also say like, shoes,
you could do something totally different here
and that will return multiple items from it.
Oh, it's not working 'cause I've, again,
I always use double quotes in GraphQL or single quotes,
but single quotes do not work in GraphQL,
only double quotes.
There we go, run, boom.
And you look here,
you get a mix of shoes and Yeti coolers back.
So we'll go back here and we'll say,
give me all the products where, OR
the name_contains_i
is equal to the search term.
And then we'll duplicate that and make this description.
So give me all the products where one of these
and similarly there also is AND,
and you can nest them as far as you want
to make some pretty complicated queries.
Just remember that there is a database underneath here.
Sometimes people, they think GraphQL is the query layer
but these will be eventually converted
to Postgres or MongoDB or MySQL queries.
So you can't...
The more complicated you get with your queries,
the more time it's going to take in order to run those.
So now we have this query right here.
And normally we would fire off this query
on page load, right?
We will go inside of our function here or component
and run useQuery.
But we don't want it to fire off on component render,
We want this to fire off when we want, right?
Kind of like a mutation,
we can call it whenever we want.
But this is not a mutation, it's a query.
So what we do in that case is we use useLazyQuery.
So let's go to the very top here.
const findItems and loading, data
and error = useLazyQuery.
And that is imported right from Apollo client,
just like we would use a query or use a mutation.
And the query that we run is called SEARCH_PRODUCTS_QUERY.
That's the one that we just wrote.
And there is one option we need to pass here.
And that is called the fetchPolicy.
That is gonna be set to no-cache.
And what that will do
is it's going to entirely bypass the Apollo cache
and always go to the network.
And that's because we don't wanna be storing
or caching any of these results.
We just wanna go directly to the network.
And there also is a bit of a problem
because if we did not go directly to the network,
it would try to pull them from the cache.
And then in our case, it would just be showing
whatever's on the current page,
which is another issue I ran into
when I was updating this thing for Apollo.
But it makes sense
that you'd totally go straight to the network,
bypass the Apollo cache entirely.
Okay so now that we have this findItems here,
we can go ahead and start running this
whenever somebody types into the box, right?
So if we open up our DevTools here
and you start to type in here,
you'll see that you get Input changed
happens 39 times, right?
Every single time that I type in here,
it's going to fire off an input change.
And we could run findItems
and we could actually fire off that findItems,
But you could see that if I was searching for like...
Let's clear this console here.
If I was searching for yeti cooler,
and I search in here and I say, I'm like backspace,
yeti cooler, right?
Like I just fired off 12 change events.
That's gonna hit the network 12 times.
That will very clearly DDoS your own system very quickly.
So when something like that happens in JavaScript
or in programming in general
where you want it to fire off,
but you don't want it to fire off that often,
that's called debouncing a function.
And then debouncing a function will say,
yeah, fire off but like, hold on for a couple seconds
and like see, maybe if we fired it
six times within a second, wait for one second
and then only fire it once
after that one second has elapsed.
So what we'll do is we'll take this findItems
and we'll make it into a debounce function
called findItemsButChill.
So const findItemsButChill = to debounce.
And debounce is a function
that needs to be imported from lodash.
And you can see it's imported from lodash.debounce.
And before you start crying,
"Oh, Wes don't import lodash into the project
"just for one little function,"
Lodash will automatically ship each of their functions
as separate packages, which is what this is.
And that will only include the very small code
that is used to debounce a function
and not the entire Lodash library.
Then to debounce, you pass it a couple of things.
First, the function, which is findItems.
And the second argument
is how many milliseconds do you want it to debounce for?
And then that will, at most, every 350 milliseconds
will we run this fetch network request.
So that is really good.
Then we'll go into our onInputValueChange
and run findItemsButChill.
So you can fire off that thing
as much as you could possibly want,
but lodash will make sure
that it's not actually going to be run
more than once every 350 milliseconds.
Last thing we need to do is to pass the value
of the input box to the variables.
Now, because the value of the input box
can be either be accessed through the state
that comes back from useCombobox.
And let's actually destructure that right now.
It's called inputValue.
But you can also get that
from the callback function right here.
It should pass you the inputValue.
Yeah, you see it's right here.
I'm not gonna destructure it
just because that value comes from useCombobox.
But when we call findItemsButChill,
we need to pass it our variables.
And the searchTerm
is going to be inputValue.
Okay, so I know this is starting to get a little bit hairy
because look at this one,
this is one function right here (laughs).
So these are the things that we destructure from it.
This is the of the method.
And these are the options that we pass to the useCombobox.
So it does get a little bit hairy once we get into it
but it's certainly much better
than having to do it ourselves.
So if that is happening now,
we should be getting some data back from this useLazyQuery
whenever that thing fires off.
So if I console.log data,
I should get undefined.
But now as I type things, like yeti, there we go.
We get undefined a couple of times,
but once we do get the data back,
and this is...
Don't be alarmed,
this is not three network requests happening.
This is just that that component has rerendered three times
because of things changing inside of it.
But if you look, open it up, searchTerm,
look at there is the three items that we actually want.
So we can take that data
and go into our DropDown here
and start to render out the items as DropDownItems.
So go here.
Let's actually make a variable called items.
So const items = data?.searchTerms
or just an empty array.
We'll fall back to an empty array.
Then we'll go down to this right here.
You can remove those Hey dropdowns.
And we'll say items.map item.
And for each item, we will return the
DropDownItem, DropDownItem.
And inside of that DropDownItem,
we can put the item.name just as a very basic.
There we go.
So now if I search for shoes,
you see how it takes a second before the items come back,
even though I was like typing yeti?
See how it waits for me to stop typing?
And then after 300 milliseconds,
it will go ahead and display them.
So shoes.
You see this very faint glowing around the input box
that we have here?
That is because of this class of loading.
We can now say, if it is loading,
then give it a class of loading,
otherwise, give it a class of nothing.
And that will only turn on,
let's see if we can do it really close and see,
when I'm searching for something, see?
For a split second, you see that it does go back
to the the network and turns on the loading state.
So you could put a spinner or you could also turn on
the end progress on the top.
Lots of neat things you can do with that.
But let's focus our attention
back on these DropDownItems inside of here.
We need to display the image of the actual item
inside of that DropDownItem.
So we'll go right above the name here
and give ourselves an img tag.
The source will be the item.photo.image.public,
oops, .publicUrlTransformed.
And then the alt will be the item.name.
Pop a width of 50 px on there.
There we go, now we're starting to see images
of the actual items show up.
And now we wanna work with our arrow keys.
'Cause as you're typing something like yeti
and you use your arrow keys,
we wanna be able to highlight those items
showing the user that that's the item
that they have currently selected.
Same thing goes when you wanna hover
and click the item as well.
So they provide a additional method
in the useCombobox.
It's called getItemProps.
So we'll destructure it up here.
And we have to go down to the DropDownItem right here.
Curly brackets, ...getItemProps,
and you pass it your actual item.
So it'll be like this.
But I don't think I need to tell you
what that means anymore.
I've mentioned that enough in this course.
Additionally, the DropDownItem needs a key
because we are mapping over each of the items.
No different than any other time we map over something.
So we'll just give it the item.id.
Let's make sure that just works here.
So I'll search for yeti and...
Oh, bit of an error.
Pass either an item or item index to getItemProps.
So we did pass the item,
but I think you also need to let Downshift
know about all the possible items that there is.
So we've got to go back up here.
Remember we just put an empty array here.
You have to give it an array of our actual items
which is this right here.
So we'll say items and that should save to the short form.
There we go.
Does that fix it for us?
And it might not look like much,
but if you take a look at the actual...
Look at all the markup that Downshift is giving us
for this type of thing.
And I believe if you...
There we go, look at, as I am using my arrow keys,
you can see that the aria-selected values
are changing from true to false, which is really cool.
So we can visually make those show up also
by passing a highlighted prop to the DropDownItem
so our style component will pick it up.
So I'll just say highlighted is equal to,
and we'll check if the index of the item
is equal to the currently selected index.
So if I press down right here and press down again,
you see how the middle one is true?
The index of the highlighted will be 1.
So we'll say we need the index
of the actual item we're looping over.
So go to this item here.
And also destructure the index.
Then we'll say if the index is equal to highlightedIndex.
And that highlightedIndex is not a variable just yet.
We need to destructure that again from useCombobox, right?
All the values come from useCombobox
and they will provide them to you.
And as you need them, we can destructure them from that.
So watch now, search for shoes.
It's not working.
I spelled highlightedIndex wrong.
There we go, you see?
Good, good, good.
So we are almost there.
There's just a couple more bits.
First we need to take care of what happens
when you hit the escape key or if you click outside.
And what that is is a value called isOpen
that, again, useCombobox gives to us.
And that will keep track
of whether this thing is currently open or not.
It'll, as you hit escape or you focus out of the input,
then it will turn that Boolean to true or false.
And we can just simply go to before our items.map
and check if it is open.
And if this is false, then it will not go forward
and map over the items for us.
So watch, so let's search for shoes.
And if I click outside, it goes away.
Click back into it, search for shoes.
If I hit my escape key, and that goes away as well.
So that's the first item that we have there.
Next little thing we need to take care of
is if there's nothing that is returned from that.
So we'll go right below the looping,
right before the closing DropDown here
and we'll say, if it is open
and there are no items
and we're not loading.
So basically, if it's not open, there's no items
and there's no loading,
that means we are not in a state
where we're currently searching for 'em
and we have nothing to show for it.
So if all of those things are true,
we will simply put a DropDownItem that says,
Sorry, No items found for,
and we can interpolate
what they were searching for, inputValue.
Now if we search for something really silly
like grilled cheese, it says,
Sorry, No items found for grilled cheese.
And we can still click outside of it
and it will tell us that those items are not found.
Last thing we need to do is this onSelectedItemChange.
When somebody actually selects one of these shoes here,
so I go down to one and I hit enter or I click it,
right now it just this object Object in the text bar
and it doesn't change the page.
So what we wanna do here is,
it will actually give us access to the selected item.
So destructure that with some curly brackets here.
And we'll just console.log selectedItem.
And If I search for yeti,
go down, I hit enter on one of those,
in our console it says, Selected Item.
There is the selected item that the user want.
And the important part that we want is this id.
So we can go into here and say, we need the router, right?
We need to be able to change the page with the router.
So we can go to the very top of our component.
const router = useRouter.
We'll have to import that from next.js.
And we'll go here, we'll say router.push.
And the path name is equal to,
we have to use back ticks to interpolate it,
/product/selectedItem.id.
Now we can get rid of those console logs.
So now if I search for yeti, go down, boom,
you see it changes the actual page.
You'll see it does this object Object.
And if you ever see this in JavaScript,
what that means is that they try to take an object
and run the .toString method on it.
If you ever have an object
and it looks a little something like this,
like curly brackets and you .toString on it, you get...
Oh, maybe I need some parentheses around that.
You get object Object.
That's what happens
when you try to make an object into a string.
So we have to pass an additional little option
to our useCombobox, which is right here.
And we'll do it right at the bottom that says itemToString.
And that is just a little function that takes the item.
And actually we can do this as an arrow function.
This is a perfect use case for an arrow function.
So we have the item and we will say
if the item is equal to null, sometimes it is null,
then we'll return nothing.
Otherwise, we return the item.name.
Or actually we could just do
item.name or
empty and then put a question mark on there.
And that will say,
if there is an item, give me the item name.
Otherwise, it will be undefined
and it'll fall back to this single quotes.
So now if I search for something
and then it actually puts the text in there.
So if we were to literally return anything,
WES IS COOL from there,
that's the text that gets shown in here, see?
WES IS COOL, right?
So we want to programmatically grab the actual item name
which is awesome.
So that is our search component.
Quite a nice little package
for working with this type of stuff.
And I'll catch you in the next one.